README.md, before:

# Introduction

St. Mocli allows you to keep SQL queries in github repositories
and easily deploy to
[re:dash](https://redash.io/).

[Re:dash](https://redash.io/)
is great for quickly creating and sharing simple analyses.
However, sometimes we want to **treat our queries like code**.
In re:dash, it's difficult to get review, track revisions, or collaborate on queries.

# Workflow

St. Mocli is currently [vaporware](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vaporware),
so this workflow is going to change.

## `init` a directory

**Implemented**!

`stmocli init`

Creates an empty `.stmocli.conf` file in the current directory.

## `track` an existing query

**Implemented**!

`stmocli track <redash_id> <filename>`

This command downloads the SQL statements associated with the given redash_id
and saves it in a file with the given name.
The necessary metadata is then added to the config file.

For example, calling
`stmocli track 49741 poc.sql`
would create a file in the current directory called `poc.sql`,
with the following content:

```sql
SELECT
    normalized_channel
FROM longitudinal
LIMIT 10
```

Assuming this is the first query being tracked, `.stmocli.conf` would look like this:

```json
{
  "poc.sql": {
    "query_id": 49741,
    "data_source_id": <data source>,
    "name": <query name>,
    "description": <query description>,
    "schedule": <schedule interval in seconds>,
    "options": <query options>
  }
}
```

## `pull` a linked query

**Not Yet Implemented**

`stmocli pull [<id>]`

Pulls the current SQL statements and metadata from re:dash for the given query.
If no query id is specified, pull data for all queries.
This will **overwrite local data**.
Be sure to use version control.

`<id>` must be a key in the dictionary stored in `.stmocli.conf`

## `push` a query

**Implemented!**

`stmocli push <filename>`

Pushes the current SQL statements and metadata to re:dash for the given query file.

`<filename>` must be a key in the dictionary stored in `.stmocli.conf`

# Roadmap

## Push-only and Automatic deploys

This tool assumes no edits happen in re:dash, which is a bad assumption.
Edits made in re:dash get overwritten if you `push` without `pull`ing first.

Ideally, there would be a Mocli-user in re:dash that owns all Mocli queries.
This would ensure all queries controlled by Mocli cannot be edited in re:dash.
We could then remove the `pull` command, and this tool becomes `push`-only.

From there we can have a scheduled job (hourly?) that pushes master to STMO.
Maybe we add a git-hook that pushes master on commit. Seamless.

## `preview` a query

Users will need to upload queries to a temporary re:dash query to preview the results.
This should be easy to do with a `preview` command.
It may also be useful to execute queries against presto directly.

## `start` a new query

Currently, St. Mocli can only track existing queries.
We should add a `start` command that will make it easy to start queries from the cli.

Commit message:

Move --redash-api-key onto parent cli() (#27)
We're redefining redash-api-key a lot, we don't complain if it isn't set, and we need it for most operations, so let's just push it onto the parent CLI group along with the conf.

Side effects of this are that --redash-api-key has to be specified between `stmocli` and the subcommand -- i.e. like `stmocli --redash-api-key foo track bar`.

It also means we have to call `cli.cli()` from the tests and not `cli.track()`.

Also, document the flag.

README.md, after:

# Introduction

St. Mocli allows you to keep SQL queries in github repositories
and easily deploy to
[re:dash](https://redash.io/).

[Re:dash](https://redash.io/)
is great for quickly creating and sharing simple analyses.
However, sometimes we want to **treat our queries like code**.
In re:dash, it's difficult to get review, track revisions, or collaborate on queries.

# Workflow

St. Mocli is currently [vaporware](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vaporware),
so this workflow is going to change.

## Preliminaries

You should have a Redash API key to perform most operations.
You can get one from your
[Redash user settings page](https://sql.telemetry.mozilla.org/users/me).

Then, add something like:

```bash
export REDASH_API_KEY="Tua1aith1ay9roh5thuGhoh6sa3raene"
```

to your ~/.bash_profile, or pass the key to stmocli on the command line like:

```bash
stmocli --redash-api-key Tua1aith1ay9roh5thuGhoh6sa3raene view query.sql
```

Note that `--redash-api-key` has to come before the verb on the command line.

## `init` a directory

**Implemented**!

`stmocli init`

Creates an empty `.stmocli.conf` file in the current directory.

## `track` an existing query

**Implemented**!

`stmocli track <redash_id> <filename>`

This command downloads the SQL statements associated with the given redash_id
and saves it in a file with the given name.
The necessary metadata is then added to the config file.

For example, calling
`stmocli track 49741 poc.sql`
would create a file in the current directory called `poc.sql`,
with the following content:

```sql
SELECT
    normalized_channel
FROM longitudinal
LIMIT 10
```

Assuming this is the first query being tracked, `.stmocli.conf` would look like this:

```json
{
  "poc.sql": {
    "query_id": 49741,
    "data_source_id": <data source>,
    "name": <query name>,
    "description": <query description>,
    "schedule": <schedule interval in seconds>,
    "options": <query options>
  }
}
```

## `pull` a linked query

**Not Yet Implemented**

`stmocli pull [<id>]`

Pulls the current SQL statements and metadata from re:dash for the given query.
If no query id is specified, pull data for all queries.
This will **overwrite local data**.
Be sure to use version control.

`<id>` must be a key in the dictionary stored in `.stmocli.conf`

## `push` a query

**Implemented!**

`stmocli push <filename>`

Pushes the current SQL statements and metadata to re:dash for the given query file.

`<filename>` must be a key in the dictionary stored in `.stmocli.conf`

# Roadmap

## Push-only and Automatic deploys

This tool assumes no edits happen in re:dash, which is a bad assumption.
Edits made in re:dash get overwritten if you `push` without `pull`ing first.

Ideally, there would be a Mocli-user in re:dash that owns all Mocli queries.
This would ensure all queries controlled by Mocli cannot be edited in re:dash.
We could then remove the `pull` command, and this tool becomes `push`-only.

From there we can have a scheduled job (hourly?) that pushes master to STMO.
Maybe we add a git-hook that pushes master on commit. Seamless.

## `preview` a query

Users will need to upload queries to a temporary re:dash query to preview the results.
This should be easy to do with a `preview` command.
It may also be useful to execute queries against presto directly.

## `start` a new query

Currently, St. Mocli can only track existing queries.
We should add a `start` command that will make it easy to start queries from the cli.
